Q1. 

(a) Explain the merge step of the mergesort algorithm. What is the overall complexity of merging in the mergesort algorithm for an input of size $n$? Explain your answer. 

(b) Explain the heap data structure Explain how the heap data structure can be used for sorting an unsorted array of $n$ integers in ascending order. 

Q2. 

(a) Write a class definition and a constructor in Java for the Link class for implementing a singly linked list. Write a class definition and constructor in Java for the DoubleLink class for implementing a doubly linked list. You can assume that the item stored in a node is an integer. 

(b) You are given a reference `current' of a node in a doubly linked list. Write a Java method insertBefore() that inserts another node before `current' with an item e. You can assume that `current' is neither the first node nor the last node in the list (that means you need not take care of special cases).

Q3. 

(a) Explain why (i) O(n^2) is O(n^3), and (ii) O(n^2) is not O(n)

(b) Explain clearly when amortized complexity analysis is useful and important. Consider an operation multiDequeue(i) for a queue. multiDequeue(i) removes i elements from the front of a queue. What is the amortized complexity of multiDequeue(i)?

Q4. 

(a) Explain the inorder, preorder and postorder traversals of a tree. Explain how breadth-first search can be used for determining whether a graph has one or more connected components. 

(b) Explain clearly Kruskal's minimum spanning tree algorithm. Explain how Kruskal's algorithm avoids adding cycles to the spanning tree. What is the complexity of Kruskal's algorithm? Explain your answer. 

Q5. 

(a) Explain how Dijkstra's single-source-shortest-path algorithm can be implemented using a priority search tree. What is the complexity of Dijkstra's algorithm? Explain your answer. 

(b) Explain clearly how dynamic programming is used in the Floyd-Warshall algorithm (Note: Just writing the pseudo-code of the Floyd-Warshall algorithm is not an answer for this question). What is the comlexity of the Floyd-Warshall algorithm? 
Explain your answer. 
